v20.2/upgrade-cockroach-version.md, before:

---
title: Upgrade to CockroachDB v20.2
summary: Learn how to upgrade your CockroachDB cluster to a new version.
toc: true
---

Because of CockroachDB's [multi-active availability](multi-active-availability.html) design, you can perform a "rolling upgrade" of your CockroachDB cluster. This means that you can upgrade nodes one at a time without interrupting the cluster's overall health and operations.

## Step 1. Verify that you can upgrade

To upgrade to a new version, you must first be on a [production release](../releases/#production-releases) of the previous version. The release does not need to be the **latest** production release of the previous version, but it must be a production release rather than a testing release (alpha/beta).

Therefore, if you are upgrading from v20.1 to v20.2, or from a testing release (alpha/beta) of v20.1 to v20.2:

1. First [upgrade to a production release of v20.1](../v20.1/upgrade-cockroach-version.html). Be sure to complete all the steps.

2. Then return to this page and perform a second rolling upgrade to v20.2.

If you are upgrading from any production release of v20.1, or from any earlier v20.2 release, you do not have to go through intermediate releases; continue to step 2.

## Step 2. Prepare to upgrade

Before starting the upgrade, complete the following steps.

### Check load balancing

Make sure your cluster is behind a [load balancer](recommended-production-settings.html#load-balancing), or your clients are configured to talk to multiple nodes. If your application communicates with a single node, stopping that node to upgrade its CockroachDB binary will cause your application to fail.

### Check cluster health

Verify the overall health of your cluster using the [Admin UI](admin-ui-overview.html). On the **Cluster Overview**:

  - Under **Node Status**, make sure all nodes that should be live are listed as such. If any nodes are unexpectedly listed as suspect or dead, identify why the nodes are offline and either restart them or [decommission](remove-nodes.html) them before beginning your upgrade. If there are dead and non-decommissioned nodes in your cluster, it will not be possible to finalize the upgrade (either automatically or manually).

  - Under **Replication Status**, make sure there are 0 under-replicated and unavailable ranges. Otherwise, performing a rolling upgrade increases the risk that ranges will lose a majority of their replicas and cause cluster unavailability. Therefore, it's important to identify and resolve the cause of range under-replication and/or unavailability before beginning your upgrade.

  - In the **Node List**:
      - Make sure all nodes are on the same version. If any nodes are behind, upgrade them to the cluster's current version first, and then start this process over.
      - Make sure capacity and memory usage are reasonable for each node. Nodes must be able to tolerate some increase in case the new version uses more resources for your workload. Also go to **Metrics > Dashboard: Hardware** and make sure CPU percent is reasonable across the cluster. If there's not enough headroom on any of these metrics, consider [adding nodes](cockroach-start.html) to your cluster before beginning your upgrade.

### Review breaking changes

Review the [backward-incompatible changes in v20.2](../releases/v20.2.0-alpha.1.html#backward-incompatible-changes), and if any affect your application, make necessary changes.

### Let ongoing bulk operations finish

Make sure there are no [bulk imports](import.html) or [schema changes](online-schema-changes.html) in progress. These are complex operations that involve coordination across nodes and can increase the potential for unexpected behavior during an upgrade.

To check for ongoing imports or schema changes, use [`SHOW JOBS`](show-jobs.html#show-schema-changes) or check the [**Jobs** page](admin-ui-jobs-page.html) in the Admin UI.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_danger}}
If you started a schema change job in v19.2 that is ongoing at the time of the upgrade, the job must be migrated to run in v20.1. This migration is automatically run shortly *after* upgrading to v20.1. In case you are upgrading from v19.2 to v20.2 or later, we advise waiting for v19.2 schema change jobs to complete in v20.1 before upgrading further.

Schema change jobs that were started in v19.2 but did not undergo the migration in v20.1 will be marked as `failed` when upgrading to v20.2. This includes jobs that were stuck on `running` or `pending` status but had either finished or failed to complete (due to bugs).
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

## Step 3. Decide how the upgrade will be finalized

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
This step is relevant only when upgrading from v20.1.x to v20.2. For upgrades within the v20.2.x series, skip this step.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

By default, after all nodes are running the new version, the upgrade process will be **auto-finalized**. This will enable certain [features and performance improvements introduced in v20.2](#features-that-require-upgrade-finalization). However, it will no longer be possible to perform a downgrade to v20.1. In the event of a catastrophic failure or corruption, the only option will be to start a new cluster using the old binary and then restore from one of the backups created prior to performing the upgrade. For this reason, **we recommend disabling auto-finalization** so you can monitor the stability and performance of the upgraded cluster before finalizing the upgrade, but note that you will need to follow all of the subsequent directions, including the manual finalization in [step 5](#step-5-finish-the-upgrade):

1. [Upgrade to v20.1](../v20.1/upgrade-cockroach-version.html), if you haven't already.

2. Start the [`cockroach sql`](cockroach-sql.html) shell against any node in the cluster.

3. Set the `cluster.preserve_downgrade_option` [cluster setting](cluster-settings.html):

    {% include copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ sql
    > SET CLUSTER SETTING cluster.preserve_downgrade_option = '20.2';
    ~~~

    It is only possible to set this setting to the current cluster version.

### Features that require upgrade finalization

This information is TBD pending further development of CockroachDB v20.2.

## Step 4. Perform the rolling upgrade

For each node in your cluster, complete the following steps. Be sure to upgrade only one node at a time, and wait at least one minute after a node rejoins the cluster to upgrade the next node. Simultaneously upgrading more than one node increases the risk that ranges will lose a majority of their replicas and cause cluster unavailability.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_success}}
We recommend creating scripts to perform these steps instead of performing them manually. Also, if you are running CockroachDB on Kubernetes, see our documentation on [single-cluster](orchestrate-cockroachdb-with-kubernetes.html#upgrade-the-cluster) and/or [multi-cluster](orchestrate-cockroachdb-with-kubernetes-multi-cluster.html#upgrade-the-cluster) orchestrated deployments for upgrade guidance instead.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}
  
1. Drain and stop the node using one of the following methods:
    
    {% include {{ page.version.version }}/prod-deployment/node-shutdown.md %}

    Verify that the process has stopped:

    {% include copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ shell
    $ ps aux | grep cockroach
    ~~~

    Alternately, you can check the node's logs for the message `server drained and shutdown completed`.

1. Download and install the CockroachDB binary you want to use:

    <div class="filters clearfix">
      <button style="width: 15%" class="filter-button" data-scope="mac">Mac</button>
      <button style="width: 15%" class="filter-button" data-scope="linux">Linux</button>
    </div>
    <p></p>

    <div class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="mac">
    {% include copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ shell
    $ curl -O https://binaries.cockroachdb.com/cockroach-{{page.release_info.version}}.darwin-10.9-amd64.tgz
    ~~~

    {% include copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ shell
    $ tar xfz cockroach-{{page.release_info.version}}.darwin-10.9-amd64.tgz
    ~~~
    </div>

    <div class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="linux">
    {% include copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ shell
    $ wget https://binaries.cockroachdb.com/cockroach-{{page.release_info.version}}.linux-amd64.tgz
    ~~~

    {% include copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ shell
    $ tar xfz cockroach-{{page.release_info.version}}.linux-amd64.tgz
    ~~~
    </div>

1. If you use `cockroach` in your `$PATH`, rename the outdated `cockroach` binary, and then move the new one into its place:

    <div class="filters clearfix">
      <button style="width: 15%" class="filter-button" data-scope="mac">Mac</button>
      <button style="width: 15%" class="filter-button" data-scope="linux">Linux</button>
    </div>
    <p></p>

    <div class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="mac">
    {% include copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ shell
    i="$(which cockroach)"; mv "$i" "$i"_old
    ~~~

    {% include copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ shell
    $ cp -i cockroach-{{page.release_info.version}}.darwin-10.9-amd64/cockroach /usr/local/bin/cockroach
    ~~~
    </div>

    <div class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="linux">
    {% include copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ shell
    i="$(which cockroach)"; mv "$i" "$i"_old
    ~~~

    {% include copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ shell
    $ cp -i cockroach-{{page.release_info.version}}.linux-amd64/cockroach /usr/local/bin/cockroach
    ~~~
    </div>

1. Start the node to have it rejoin the cluster.

    Without a process manager like `systemd`, re-run the [`cockroach start`](cockroach-start.html) command that you used to start the node initially, for example:

    {% include copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ shell
    $ cockroach start \
    --certs-dir=certs \
    --advertise-addr=<node address> \
    --join=<node1 address>,<node2 address>,<node3 address>
    ~~~

    If you are using `systemd` as the process manager, run this command to start the node:

    {% include copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ shell
    $ systemctl start <systemd config filename>
    ~~~

1. Verify the node has rejoined the cluster through its output to `stdout` or through the [Admin UI](admin-ui-overview.html).

    {{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
    To access the Admin UI for a secure cluster, [create a user with a password](create-user.html#create-a-user-with-a-password). Then open a browser and go to `https://<any node's external IP address>:8080`. On accessing the Admin UI, you will see a Login screen, where you will need to enter your username and password.
    {{site.data.alerts.end}}

1. If you use `cockroach` in your `$PATH`, you can remove the old binary:

    {% include copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ shell
    $ rm /usr/local/bin/cockroach_old
    ~~~

    If you leave versioned binaries on your servers, you do not need to do anything.

1. Wait at least one minute after the node has rejoined the cluster, and then repeat these steps for the next node.

## Step 5. Finish the upgrade

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
This step is relevant only when upgrading from v20.1.x to v20.2. For upgrades within the v20.2.x series, skip this step.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

If you disabled auto-finalization in [step 3](#step-3-decide-how-the-upgrade-will-be-finalized), monitor the stability and performance of your cluster for as long as you require to feel comfortable with the upgrade (generally at least a day) and remember to prevent new schema changes and changes to user privileges. If during this time you decide to roll back the upgrade, repeat the rolling restart procedure with the old binary.

Once you are satisfied with the new version:

1. Start the [`cockroach sql`](cockroach-sql.html) shell against any node in the cluster.

2. Re-enable auto-finalization:

    {% include copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ sql
    > RESET CLUSTER SETTING cluster.preserve_downgrade_option;
    ~~~

## Troubleshooting

After the upgrade has finalized (whether manually or automatically), it is no longer possible to downgrade to the previous release. If you are experiencing problems, we therefore recommend that you:

1. Run the [`cockroach debug zip`](cockroach-debug-zip.html) command against any node in the cluster to capture your cluster's state.

2. [Reach out for support](support-resources.html) from Cockroach Labs, sharing your debug zip.

In the event of catastrophic failure or corruption, the only option will be to start a new cluster using the old binary and then restore from one of the backups created prior to performing the upgrade.

## See also

- [View Node Details](cockroach-node.html)
- [Collect Debug Information](cockroach-debug-zip.html)
- [View Version Details](cockroach-version.html)
- [Release notes for our latest version](../releases/{{page.release_info.version}}.html)

Commit message:

Document features that require upgrade finalization
Closes #8627.

v20.2/upgrade-cockroach-version.md, after:

---
title: Upgrade to CockroachDB v20.2
summary: Learn how to upgrade your CockroachDB cluster to a new version.
toc: true
---

Because of CockroachDB's [multi-active availability](multi-active-availability.html) design, you can perform a "rolling upgrade" of your CockroachDB cluster. This means that you can upgrade nodes one at a time without interrupting the cluster's overall health and operations.

## Step 1. Verify that you can upgrade

To upgrade to a new version, you must first be on a [production release](../releases/#production-releases) of the previous version. The release does not need to be the **latest** production release of the previous version, but it must be a production release rather than a testing release (alpha/beta).

Therefore, if you are upgrading from v20.1 to v20.2, or from a testing release (alpha/beta) of v20.1 to v20.2:

1. First [upgrade to a production release of v20.1](../v20.1/upgrade-cockroach-version.html). Be sure to complete all the steps.

2. Then return to this page and perform a second rolling upgrade to v20.2.

If you are upgrading from any production release of v20.1, or from any earlier v20.2 release, you do not have to go through intermediate releases; continue to step 2.

## Step 2. Prepare to upgrade

Before starting the upgrade, complete the following steps.

### Check load balancing

Make sure your cluster is behind a [load balancer](recommended-production-settings.html#load-balancing), or your clients are configured to talk to multiple nodes. If your application communicates with a single node, stopping that node to upgrade its CockroachDB binary will cause your application to fail.

### Check cluster health

Verify the overall health of your cluster using the [Admin UI](admin-ui-overview.html). On the **Overview**:

  - Under **Node Status**, make sure all nodes that should be live are listed as such. If any nodes are unexpectedly listed as suspect or dead, identify why the nodes are offline and either restart them or [decommission](remove-nodes.html) them before beginning your upgrade. If there are dead and non-decommissioned nodes in your cluster, it will not be possible to finalize the upgrade (either automatically or manually).

  - Under **Replication Status**, make sure there are 0 under-replicated and unavailable ranges. Otherwise, performing a rolling upgrade increases the risk that ranges will lose a majority of their replicas and cause cluster unavailability. Therefore, it's important to identify and resolve the cause of range under-replication and/or unavailability before beginning your upgrade.

  - In the **Node List**:
      - Make sure all nodes are on the same version. If any nodes are behind, upgrade them to the cluster's current version first, and then start this process over.
      - Make sure capacity and memory usage are reasonable for each node. Nodes must be able to tolerate some increase in case the new version uses more resources for your workload. Also go to **Metrics > Dashboard: Hardware** and make sure CPU percent is reasonable across the cluster. If there's not enough headroom on any of these metrics, consider [adding nodes](cockroach-start.html) to your cluster before beginning your upgrade.

### Review breaking changes

Review the [backward-incompatible changes in v20.2](../releases/v20.2.0.html#backward-incompatible-changes), and if any affect your application, make necessary changes.

### Let ongoing bulk operations finish

Make sure there are no [bulk imports](import.html) or [schema changes](online-schema-changes.html) in progress. These are complex operations that involve coordination across nodes and can increase the potential for unexpected behavior during an upgrade.

To check for ongoing imports or schema changes, use [`SHOW JOBS`](show-jobs.html#show-schema-changes) or check the [**Jobs** page](admin-ui-jobs-page.html) in the Admin UI.

## Step 3. Decide how the upgrade will be finalized

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
This step is relevant only when upgrading from v20.1.x to v20.2. For upgrades within the v20.2.x series, skip this step.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

By default, after all nodes are running the new version, the upgrade process will be **auto-finalized**. This will enable certain [features and performance improvements introduced in v20.2](#features-that-require-upgrade-finalization). However, it will no longer be possible to perform a downgrade to v20.1. In the event of a catastrophic failure or corruption, the only option will be to start a new cluster using the old binary and then restore from one of the backups created prior to performing the upgrade. For this reason, **we recommend disabling auto-finalization** so you can monitor the stability and performance of the upgraded cluster before finalizing the upgrade, but note that you will need to follow all of the subsequent directions, including the manual finalization in [step 5](#step-5-finish-the-upgrade):

1. [Upgrade to v20.1](../v20.1/upgrade-cockroach-version.html), if you haven't already.

2. Start the [`cockroach sql`](cockroach-sql.html) shell against any node in the cluster.

3. Set the `cluster.preserve_downgrade_option` [cluster setting](cluster-settings.html):

    {% include copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ sql
    > SET CLUSTER SETTING cluster.preserve_downgrade_option = '20.1';
    ~~~

    It is only possible to set this setting to the current cluster version.

### Features that require upgrade finalization

When upgrading from v20.1 to v20.2, certain features and performance improvements will be enabled only after finalizing the upgrade, including but not limited to:

- **Spatial features:** After finalization, it will be possible to use [spatial indexes](../v20.2/spatial-indexes.html), and [spatial functions](../v20.2/functions-and-operators#spatial-functions), as well as the ability to migrating spatial data from various formats such as [Shapefiles](../v20.2/migrate-from-shapefiles), [GeoJSON](../v20.2/migrate-from-geojson), [GeoPackages](../v20.2/migrate-from-geopackage), and [OpenStreetMap](../v20.2/migrate-from-openstreetmap).

- **`ENUM` data types:** After finalization, it will be possible to create and manage [user-defined `ENUM` data types](../v20.2/enum.html) consisting of sets of enumerated, static values.

- **Altering column data types:** After finalization, it will be possible to [alter column data types](../v20.2/alter-column.html#altering-column-data-types) where column data must be rewritten.

- **User-defined schemas:** After finalization, it will be possible to [create user-defined logical schemas](../v20.2/create-schema.html), as well [alter user-defined schemas](../v20.2/alter-schema.html), [drop user-defined schemas](../v20.2/drop-schema.html), and [convert databases to user-defined schemas](../v20.2/convert-to-schema.html).

- **Foreign key index requirement:** After finalization, it will no longer be required to have an index on the referencing columns of a [`FOREIGN KEY`](../v20.2/foriegn-key.html) constraint.

- **Minimum password length:** After finalization, it will be possible to use the `server.user_login.min_password_length` [cluster setting](../v20.2/cluster-settings.html) to set a minimum length for passwords.

- **Materialized views:** After finalization, it will be possible to create [materialized views](../v20.2/views.html#materialized-views), or views that store their selection query results on-disk.

- **`CREATELOGIN` privilege:** After finalization, the `CREATELOGIN` privilege will be required to define or change authentication principals or their credentials.  

## Step 4. Perform the rolling upgrade

For each node in your cluster, complete the following steps. Be sure to upgrade only one node at a time, and wait at least one minute after a node rejoins the cluster to upgrade the next node. Simultaneously upgrading more than one node increases the risk that ranges will lose a majority of their replicas and cause cluster unavailability.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_success}}
We recommend creating scripts to perform these steps instead of performing them manually. Also, if you are running CockroachDB on Kubernetes, see our documentation on [single-cluster](orchestrate-cockroachdb-with-kubernetes.html#upgrade-the-cluster) and/or [multi-cluster](orchestrate-cockroachdb-with-kubernetes-multi-cluster.html#upgrade-the-cluster) orchestrated deployments for upgrade guidance instead.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

1. Drain and stop the node using one of the following methods:

    {% include {{ page.version.version }}/prod-deployment/node-shutdown.md %}

    Verify that the process has stopped:

    {% include copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ shell
    $ ps aux | grep cockroach
    ~~~

    Alternately, you can check the node's logs for the message `server drained and shutdown completed`.

1. Download and install the CockroachDB binary you want to use:

    <div class="filters clearfix">
      <button style="width: 15%" class="filter-button" data-scope="mac">Mac</button>
      <button style="width: 15%" class="filter-button" data-scope="linux">Linux</button>
    </div>
    <p></p>

    <div class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="mac">
    {% include copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ shell
    $ curl -O https://binaries.cockroachdb.com/cockroach-{{page.release_info.version}}.darwin-10.9-amd64.tgz
    ~~~

    {% include copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ shell
    $ tar xfz cockroach-{{page.release_info.version}}.darwin-10.9-amd64.tgz
    ~~~
    </div>

    <div class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="linux">
    {% include copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ shell
    $ wget https://binaries.cockroachdb.com/cockroach-{{page.release_info.version}}.linux-amd64.tgz
    ~~~

    {% include copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ shell
    $ tar xfz cockroach-{{page.release_info.version}}.linux-amd64.tgz
    ~~~
    </div>

1. If you use `cockroach` in your `$PATH`, rename the outdated `cockroach` binary, and then move the new one into its place:

    <div class="filters clearfix">
      <button style="width: 15%" class="filter-button" data-scope="mac">Mac</button>
      <button style="width: 15%" class="filter-button" data-scope="linux">Linux</button>
    </div>
    <p></p>

    <div class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="mac">
    {% include copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ shell
    i="$(which cockroach)"; mv "$i" "$i"_old
    ~~~

    {% include copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ shell
    $ cp -i cockroach-{{page.release_info.version}}.darwin-10.9-amd64/cockroach /usr/local/bin/cockroach
    ~~~
    </div>

    <div class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="linux">
    {% include copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ shell
    i="$(which cockroach)"; mv "$i" "$i"_old
    ~~~

    {% include copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ shell
    $ cp -i cockroach-{{page.release_info.version}}.linux-amd64/cockroach /usr/local/bin/cockroach
    ~~~
    </div>

1. Start the node to have it rejoin the cluster.

    Without a process manager like `systemd`, re-run the [`cockroach start`](cockroach-start.html) command that you used to start the node initially, for example:

    {% include copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ shell
    $ cockroach start \
    --certs-dir=certs \
    --advertise-addr=<node address> \
    --join=<node1 address>,<node2 address>,<node3 address>
    ~~~

    If you are using `systemd` as the process manager, run this command to start the node:

    {% include copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ shell
    $ systemctl start <systemd config filename>
    ~~~

1. Verify the node has rejoined the cluster through its output to `stdout` or through the [Admin UI](admin-ui-overview.html).

    {{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
    To access the Admin UI for a secure cluster, [create a user with a password](create-user.html#create-a-user-with-a-password). Then open a browser and go to `https://<any node's external IP address>:8080`. On accessing the Admin UI, you will see a Login screen, where you will need to enter your username and password.
    {{site.data.alerts.end}}

1. If you use `cockroach` in your `$PATH`, you can remove the old binary:

    {% include copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ shell
    $ rm /usr/local/bin/cockroach_old
    ~~~

    If you leave versioned binaries on your servers, you do not need to do anything.

1. Wait at least one minute after the node has rejoined the cluster, and then repeat these steps for the next node.

## Step 5. Finish the upgrade

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
This step is relevant only when upgrading from v20.1.x to v20.2. For upgrades within the v20.2.x series, skip this step.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

If you disabled auto-finalization in [step 3](#step-3-decide-how-the-upgrade-will-be-finalized), monitor the stability and performance of your cluster for as long as you require to feel comfortable with the upgrade (generally at least a day) and remember to prevent new schema changes and changes to user privileges. If during this time you decide to roll back the upgrade, repeat the rolling restart procedure with the old binary.

Once you are satisfied with the new version:

1. Start the [`cockroach sql`](cockroach-sql.html) shell against any node in the cluster.

2. Re-enable auto-finalization:

    {% include copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ sql
    > RESET CLUSTER SETTING cluster.preserve_downgrade_option;
    ~~~

## Troubleshooting

After the upgrade has finalized (whether manually or automatically), it is no longer possible to downgrade to the previous release. If you are experiencing problems, we therefore recommend that you:

1. Run the [`cockroach debug zip`](cockroach-debug-zip.html) command against any node in the cluster to capture your cluster's state.

2. [Reach out for support](support-resources.html) from Cockroach Labs, sharing your debug zip.

In the event of catastrophic failure or corruption, the only option will be to start a new cluster using the old binary and then restore from one of the backups created prior to performing the upgrade.

## See also

- [View Node Details](cockroach-node.html)
- [Collect Debug Information](cockroach-debug-zip.html)
- [View Version Details](cockroach-version.html)
- [Release notes for our latest version](../releases/{{page.release_info.version}}.html)
